'''''

man2html − convert UNIX nroff(1) manual pages to HTML format

[cols=",",]
|===
|*man2html* |[*-bare*] [*-belem* _name_] [*-botm* _lines_] [*-cgiurl*
_string_] [*-cgiurlexp* _expr_] [*-compress*] [*-headmap* _mapfile_]
[*-help*] [*-k*] [*-leftm* _chars_] [*-nodepage*] [*-noheads*]
[*-pgsize* _lines_] [*-seealso*] [*-solaris*] [*-sun*] [*-title*
_string_] [*-topm* _lines_] [*-uelem* _name_]
|===

Typical Usage:

*man2html*

{empty}[*-options*]

[*-options*] The filter reads formatted nroff text from standard input
and writes a [.small]#HTML# document to standard output The formatted
nroff output is surrounded with tags with the following
exceptions/additions:

• Section heads are wrapped in [.small]#HTML# tags. See the section
below for additional information. The option can be used to disable this
feature. • Bold words designated by a "<char><bs><char>" sequences are
wrapped in tags (or the element specified via the option). • Underlined
words designated by a "_<bs><char>" sequences are wrapped in tags (or
the element specified via the option). This option will eliminate
[.small]#HTML# and tags from the output. This is useful when you wish to
incorporate the output into another [.small]#HTML# document. Use as the
name of the element to wrap overstriken characters. The default is *B*.
The argument specifies the number of lines representing the bottom
margin of the formatted nroff input. The line count includes any running
footers. The default value is 7. The argument specifies a template
[.small]#URL# for creating links to other manpages. See the section
below for additional information. The argument specifies a Perl
expression evaluting to a [.small]#URL# for creating links to other
manpages. See the section below for additional information. Compress
consecutive blank lines into a single line. The argument is read to
determine which [.small]#HTML# header tags are to be used for various
section heading in the manpage. See the section below for information on
the format of the map file. Print out a short usage message and then
exit immediately. Process input resulting from a manpage keyword search
See the section below for additional information. The argument specifies
the width of the number of characters making up the left margin of the
formatted nroff input. The default value is 0. By default, merges
multi-page formatted nroff into a single page. This option may be used
to disable depagination, causing running headers and footers in the
formatted nroff input to be carried over into the [.small]#HTML# output.
By default, wraps section heads in [.small]#HTML# header tags. See the
section below for additional information. This option may be specified
to disabled this feature. The argument specifies the number of lines
making up the page size (length) of the formatted nroff input. The
default value is 66. If the option has been specified, then this option
restricts the creation of links to other manual pages to the section
only. If the option has been specified, then this option modifies its
operation to process the alternate manual page keyword search format
produced by the utility on systems running See the section below for
additional information. Do not require a section head to have bold
overstriking in the formatted nroff input. The option is called because
it was on a Sun workstation that section heads in manpages were found to
not be overstruck. By default, does not generate a [.small]#HTML# title
This option sets the title of the [.small]#HTML# output to the specified
The argument specifies number number of lines representing the top
margin of the formatted nroff input. The line count includes any running
headers. The default value is 7. Use as the name of the element to wrap
underscored characters. The default is *I*. The option may be used to
customize which [.small]#HTML# header tags, are used in manpage section
headings. Normally, treats lines that are flush to the left margin and
contain overstriking (overstrike check is canceled with the option), as
section heads. However, you can augment/override what [.small]#HTML#
header tags are used for any given section head. In order to write a
section head map file, you will need to know about associative arrays.
You do not need to be an expert in to write a map file, however, having
knowledge of allows you to be more clever. To add to the default mapping
defined by your map file will contain lines with the following syntax:

where is the text of the manpage section head. For example: or is the
[.small]#HTML# header tag to wrap the section head in. Legal values are:
To override the default mapping with your own, then your map file will
have the following syntax:

*%SectionHead = ( +
’<section head text>’, ’<html header tag>’, +
’<section head text>’, ’<html header tag>’, +
# ... More section head/tag pairs +
’<section head text>’, ’<html header tag>’, +
);* +
As of this writing, this is the default map used by

....
%SectionHead = (
    ’\S.*OPTIONS.*’             => ’<H2>’,
    ’AUTHORS?’                  => ’<H2>’,
    ’BUGS’                      => ’<H2>’,
    ’COMPATIBILITY’             => ’<H2>’,
    ’DEPENDENCIES’              => ’<H2>’,
    ’DESCRIPTION’               => ’<H2>’,
    ’DIAGNOSTICS’               => ’<H2>’,
    ’ENVIRONMENT’               => ’<H2>’,
    ’ERRORS’                    => ’<H2>’,
    ’EXAMPLES’                  => ’<H2>’,
    ’EXTERNAL INFLUENCES’       => ’<H2>’,
    ’FILES’                     => ’<H2>’,
    ’LIMITATIONS’               => ’<H2>’,
    ’NAME’                      => ’<H2>’,
    ’NOTES?’                    => ’<H2>’,
    ’OPTIONS’                   => ’<H2>’,
    ’REFERENCES’                => ’<H2>’,
    ’RETURN VALUE’              => ’<H2>’,
    ’SECTION.*:’                => ’<H2>’,
    ’SEE ALSO’                  => ’<H2>’,
    ’STANDARDS CONFORMANCE’     => ’<H2>’,
    ’STYLE CONVENTION’          => ’<H2>’,
    ’SYNOPSIS’                  => ’<H2>’,
    ’SYNTAX’                    => ’<H2>’,
    ’WARNINGS’                  => ’<H2>’,
    ’\s+Section.*:’             => ’<H3>’,
);
$HeadFallback = ’<H2>’;  # Fallback tag if above is not found.
....

Check the source code of for the latest default mapping. You can
reassign the variable to a different value if you choose. This value is
used as the header tag of a section head if no matches are found in the
*%SectionHead* map. You may have noticed unusual characters in the
default map file, like "\s" or "*". The utility actual treats the as a
regular expression. If you are comfortable with regular expressions,
then you have their full power to use in your map file. The utility
already anchors the regular expression to the beginning of the line with
left margin spacing specified by the option. Therefore, do not use the
‘^’ character to anchor your regular expression to the beginning.
However, you may end your expression with a ‘*$*’ to anchor it to the
end of the line. Since the is actually a regular expression, you will
have to be careful of special characters if you want them to be treated
literally. Any of the characters should be escaped by prefixing them by
the ‘*\*’ character if you want to treat them "as is". One should use
single quotes instead of double quotes to delimit This will preserve any
‘*\*’ characters for character escaping or when the ‘*\*’ is used for
special character matching sequences (e.g., *\s*, *\w*, *\S*). Comments
can be inserted in the map file by using the ’*#*’ character. Anything
after, and including, the ’*#*’ character is ignored, up to the end of
line. You might be thinking that the above is quite-a-bit-of-stuff just
for doing manpage section heads. However, you will be surprised how much
better the [.small]#HTML# output looks with header tags, even though,
everything else is in a tag. The utility allows the ability to link to
other manpage references. If the option is specified, will create
anchors that link to other manpages. The [.small]#URL# entered with the
option is actually a template that determines the actual [.small]#URL#
used to link to other manpages. The following variables are defined
during run time that may be used in the template string:

The title of the manual page referenced. The section number of the
manual page referenced. The subsection of the manual page referenced.
Any other text in the template is preserved "as is". The utility
evaluates the template string as a string expression. Therefore, one
might need to surround the variable names with ’*\{}*’ (e.g., so that
properly recognizes the variable. If a [.small]#CGI# program calling is
actually a shell script or a program, make sure to properly escape the
’*$*’ character in the [.small]#URL# template to avoid variable
interpolation by the [.small]#CGI# program. Normally, the [.small]#URL#
calls a [.small]#CGI# program (hence the option name), but the
[.small]#URL# can easily link to statically converted documents. The
following template string is specified to call a [.small]#CGI# program
to retrieve the appropriate manpage linked to: +
If the manpage is referenced in the section, the above template will
translate to the following [.small]#URL# : The actual [.small]#HTML#
markup will look like the following:
*<A HREF="/cgi-bin/man.cgi?section=1&topic=ls">ls(1)</A>* The following
template string is specified to retrieve pre-converted manpages: If the
manpage is referenced, the above template will translate to the
following [.small]#URL# : The actual [.small]#HTML# markup will look
like the following: *<A
HREF="http://foo.org/man1/mount.1M.html">mount(1M)</A>* The option is a
more general form of the option. allows one to specify a general Perl
expression. For example:
*$title=~/^db_/i?"$title.html":"/cgi-bin/man?$title+$section"* A can be
expressed as follows with *-cgiurlexp*: *return "*_string_*"* The
utility has the ability to process keyword search output generated by
the *man -k* or *apropos* commands, through the use of the option. The
utility will generate an [.small]#HTML# document of the keyword search
input having the following format: • All manpage references are listed
by section. • Within each section listing, the manpage references are
sorted alphabetically (case-sensitive) in a tag. The manpage references
are listed in the section, and the summary text is listed in the
section. • Each manpage reference listed is a hyperlink to the actual
manpage as specified by the option. This ability to process keyword
searches gives nice added functionality to a [.small]#WWW# forms
interface to Even if you have statically converted manpages to
[.small]#HTML# via another man-> [.small]#HTML# program, you can use and
"*man -k*" to provide keyword search capabilities easily for your
[.small]#HTML# manpages. Unfortunately, there is no standard controlling
the format of keyword search results. The utility tries it best to
handle all the variations. However, the keyword search results generated
by the operating system is different enough from other systems that a
special command-line option must be specified to handle its output.

....
strcpy        strcpy (9f)  - copy a string from one location to another.
strcpy        string (3c)  - string operations
strncpy       strcpy (9f)  - copy a string from one location to another.
strncpy       string (3c)  - string operations
....

If keyword search results on your systems appear in the following
format: then you need to specify the option in addition to the option.
Different systems format manpages differently. Here is a list of
recommended command-line options for certain systems: * +
Convex*: <defaults should be okay>

[cols=",",]
|===
|*HP*: |*-leftm 1 -topm 8*
|*Sun*: |*-sun* (and *-solaris* when using *-k*)
|===

Some line spacing gets lost in the formatted nroff since the spacing
would occur in the middle of a page break. This can cause text to be
merged that shouldn’t be merged when depaginates the text. To avoid this
problem, keeps track of the margin indent right before and after a page
break. If the margin width of the line after the page break is less than
the line before the page break, then inserts a blank line in the
[.small]#HTML# output. A manpage cross-reference is detected by the
following pseudo expression: *[A-z.-+_]+([0-9][A-z]?)* The utility only
recognizes lines with " *-* " (the normal separator between manpage
references and summary text) while in keyword search mode. The utility
can be hooked in a [.small]#CGI# script/program to convert manpages on
the fly. This is the reason for the option. The order that section head
mapping is searched is not defined. Therefore, if two or more can match
a give manpage section, there is no way to determine which map tag is
chosen. If is specified, all xrefs are detected after the heading. In
other words, sections after may contain hyperlinked xrefs. Text that is
flush to the left margin, but is not actually a section head, can be
mistaken for a section head. This mistake is more likely when the option
is in affect. This documentation describes version 3.0.1 +
Troff version of this document initially created for version 2.1.0 by C.
Jeffery Small by copying, reformatting, rearranging and partially
rewriting the contents of the ascii text file

'''''
